and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
our weekly emails where I share actual
B2 marketing website and SEO tips
podcasts free giveaways and more you can
give it a shot over at businessgrowth
dot email
so join me today I've got Shannon Karen
Shannon's the VP of marketing
Shannon welcome to the show how we doing
ah good thank you so much happy Friday
yeah yeah yeah likewise good good uh
good to chat looking forward to the
convo we're going to be talking about
how to make predictions in B2B marketing
I think this is going to be super useful
for a bunch of kind of tech Founders
marketers
maybe even some sales reps that tune in
to understand how they can actually
leverage predictions leverage data to
make sound decisions when it comes to
driving Leeds pipeline revenue for their
B2B organizations
so that said
why should B2B companies consider making
predictions when it comes to their
marketing
yeah I think this is a really
interesting topic
um it's something that every time I'm in
conversation with my peers the kind of
um elephant in the room conversation the
dirty word of attribution comes up uh it
is something that I think no one has
solved everyone's still it's wild to me
how many CMOS still talk about it
um like for like in a lot of their job
um and so
the way that we think about it over at
mad kudu is thinking a little bit less
about what happened in the past and more
about how you can use data to help you
understand what's going to happen in the
future right and I think that we have so
much data now right I think this is
something that every tech company is
talking about the oversaturation of data
um especially if you're selling into
Revenue teams right so if you're
thinking about marketers there's just
signals everywhere tons of noise
um as the buying process gets more and
more
I don't even know if it's necessarily
complex uh a lot of times it's complex
but it's just noisy like I think there's
just so many channels
um and how do you know which one of
which of those signals to prioritize to
understand where your revenue and your
pipeline is going to come from so
um we think a lot about how we can like
be the kind of the co-pilot to revenue
teams to allow them to understand where
to invest their budget where to invest
their time how do they predict and
prioritize the right Revenue generating
signals so they know how to
um only work on the accounts that look
like they're closed one business
got it yeah I mean it's uh it's a super
timely topic
because so many companies so many Brands
so many teams in the tech space
especially uh getting really clamping
down on budgets whether that's paid
spend influences spent I don't know SEO
spend websites spend whatever it may be
um so this is going to be super useful I
want to jump through kind of your ideas
when it comes to kind of putting
together that kind of strategy
um
but how will this impact how will making
predictions impact Revenue specifically
is it around like you mentioned there
just setting aside a budget for the
right channels that have the most impact
kind of shorter term or is there a bit
more to consider
yeah it's really a full funnel approach
so everything from where do I invest at
the top of the funnel to know that the
right quality leads are coming or leads
or accounts um like to hope that folks
are looking at accounts now right
um are coming in to their into their
pipe um or into their funnel
um and then as they go through their
funnel really understanding the customer
journey and where folks should
prioritize so it's interesting I think a
few years ago when so I joined Matt kudu
about eight months ago but a few years
ago we are working a lot with um
specifically product-led growth
companies that had a ton of volume in
terms of sign ups in terms of leads and
they needed help prioritizing right they
needed help scoring them they needed to
understand you know when is the lead
actually ready to go to sales
um and there was so much volume that
that was really our value right and now
we're seeing these folks uh inbound
volume is down uh across the board and
you're also seeing there is uh there's
someone there's a lack of investment
sorry I knew this was going to happen
this is my cat
um
uh less investment
um on the plg front as well
um
let me restart this this is gonna work
oh no it no it focused on him instead of
me
um and so we were able to
um were able to help teams now really
think about how do they predict in the
future where to put their budget
um and where to invest and how do they
tell their sales folks what accounts to
go after how do we actually make
outbound work again
um and that's what we're really seeing
is a big value ad
which is a little bit different than
what we were seeing maybe two years ago
gotcha gotcha okay yeah yeah it will
make sense and I know you before we hit
recording there's something you work on
or mention or encourage companies to get
stuck in stuck into called a hybrid
funnel yeah so be great if you could
share a bit more what what that entails
and how that can help organizations
definitely I'm sorry about my camera
it's really just given me a tough time
here let's see if I can get it yeah no
no worries out
um it might be a little buggy for you um
so yeah so when you think about funnels
it used to be inbound outbound right
like it was you know you're either an
inbound business
um you bring a ton of traffic to your to
your website or you're mostly an
outbound business lots of cold calls
right
um what we're seeing now is pretty much
every company has a hybrid phone so
everything from inbound to outbound to a
product like growth motion so if they
have a freemium or free trial offer lots
of folks are also
um building a ton of Revenue in their
customer base so you're looking at land
and expand
um and all of those are coming in as
different qualified leads so you get to
see like SQL pql mql like you hear all
of these acronyms right
um and what we're truly trying to say is
that the ql part is the thing that
matters right like is this qualified
um oh I'm back um so is this traffic
qualified
um uh are these accounts qualified are
these contacts qualified to really send
over to sales so it really means a lot
less about the channel in which they are
brought in on other than how you
allocate your budget which we think is
really important
um but in terms of your sales team do
you think someone an AE really cares
where you know the hand raiser came from
certainly not yeah um they care if it's
going to close right and so uh and how
quickly and if they can hit their number
right and sales folks are are grinding
right now they are definitely it's it's
not
um the game that it has been right as if
you're in B2B Tech right which I know a
lot of your audience is
um over the last few years has been
really different right they're they're
definitely searching everywhere they can
to find um
to find business and so we're finding
now that it doesn't really matter which
channels uh from a marketing perspective
they're coming in from they just want to
know that they're coming and so we're
we're all running a hybrid funnel we
can't rely on one channel anymore it's
talking to a customer the other day that
their entire business was pretty much
built on paid ads right like and they
had enough volume like that they were
that they were bringing in enough and
now they're finding like this that is
not scalable we're running out of
capital
and we need to diversify our our funnel
sources right so
um yeah we're all all of us are in it I
think um maybe some of the big Giants
aren't but I I think I think they are so
it's funny how it always takes crisis or
issues like that for us to realize that
a multi-channel marketing system just
makes sense and I've certainly been
guilty of it in our own business web
choice and various other companies like
when something takes a severe hit then
it's like oh yeah we should probably
have other channels running to drive
inbound rather than just relying on paid
or SEO or demand gen or influence
remarksdale social or whatever it might
be or outbound cold calling cold email
whatever but
it's always those times when you realize
and like you say if you're running on
paid and like we're seeing that across
the board quite a lot that inbound from
Paid is kind of on on the down on a bit
of a Down downhill slow
and it's it really brings in home that
you can't rely on one or two channels to
fuel your sales team and every business
is totally different right that's the
other thing you know and I think
everyone knew they should be
diversifying a few years ago but if one
of your channels is massively taking off
how do you say no what don't allocate
budget like over there because we want
to make sure we want to try and grow
these other like really nascent channels
that are going to take a long time to
like organic as a good example right
that takes a long time to show value
um and organic is also uh people are
finding I think we're hearing that it's
down across the board because less
people are in an active buying process
than they used to be right less people
are searching for Solutions
um and so it you need to be a lot more
focused on getting your brand in front
of your customers so that you become
more persuasive in that buying process
so organic was amazing when people were
constantly looking for software right
when people were always searching for
software right how do I solve my problem
how can I buy more tools uh I remember I
I was in a role a few years ago that our
martech stack had 56 Tools in it and
that was like the the Golden Age of
martech Right Where like everyone is
buying a point solution for very small
things right
um and now people are saying how do I
get my my brev tech stack down to five
tools like they don't they're platforms
that go across the teams so I don't have
you know a marketing Ops team that is
just managing a thousand Point Solutions
right um and how could I get my cap down
right like I said in terms of software
so I don't have to do a layoff right so
I think that there's I think people knew
that this was the right thing to do but
it was hard to it's easy to look back
and say how did we not diversify it's
like well you know if you had a ton of
traffic coming in you know it makes
complete sense like that's a great
signal that you should invest right so I
think I don't blame anybody I think it's
true yeah definitely I knew we're we're
in a new age right and I think that it's
important that we adapt to it
yeah yeah for sure I hate to think what
the monthly spend was in about 58
martech tours a month
[Laughter]
but a lot of them were also like ten
dollars a month like this was the time
when you had a lot of those like social
media tools and like blog optimization
tools and I think they were all cheap
enough that they probably didn't even
get into a procurement process right
um so they just became a complete
spatter of of stuff uh that had one
person logged in right and I think that
that's I do think that age is kind of uh
is is ending for sure for sure so when
it comes to setting up a prediction and
a prioritization system for your B2B
company whether it's Tech or service
based how
can we do it what are some of the first
steps that we should consider before we
start acting channels or moving a bunch
of cash into another platform or Channel
or market and what's like the very first
consideration
definitely I think the biggest thing is
looking at
um I think this sounds very simple but
looking at your win loss analysis and
understanding really what business is
closing right so what what is your close
close one Revenue actually look like
um and using that to work backwards
through your funnel
um and it's interesting though because
lots of folks that have an 18 24 month
sales process that's really hard because
you know the channel you can do the
exact same investment that you did 24
months ago on a channel and it's
fundamentally different right but really
understanding the value of your product
and what types of companies are truly
buying uh your product and getting value
um and then working backwards from there
so building out a scoring model right
that looks like
um your best customers that looks like
your stickiest customers and doing your
best to scale that and then working
backwards back up the funnel right
saying how do we how do we invest in
channels that we know we're going to
bring in these types of folks
um the way we think about it is that you
have accounts that are there's kind of
two two different dimensions right they
have the great the right firmographic
data which means that they are the great
customer fit so they are right in your
ICP and your segmentation they look
exactly like um your closed one revenue
or where you want to go that's okay too
like if you if you have a really strong
conviction that you can move up Market
or move into a new industry run some
tests and then build that into your
models and then there's this second
dimension which we call either
likelihood to buy or engagement so what
have they done to show
um that they are in a place where they'd
be really a really great fit to go into
a sales process so that I think we all
know this right if you push people into
a sales process too early you propose on
the first date it is a really bad
experience and I think we're all feeling
like we you don't have a million shots
these days to come back on an account
um unless your point of contact is
changing all the time which that is
happening in a lot of places
um but even your customer base you're
reselling all the time right and so
that's the those are kind of that's the
framework that we think about look at
your close one Revenue build a scoring
model based on that and then build a
really excellent feedback loop from your
customer success your sales team and
your marketing team right I think that's
the most critical part is that this is
something that's constantly evolving
it's not a set it and forget it
um and I think that's where a predictive
model really does help
um and using you know the hot button
term AI to really help automate the
parts of this that are
um that are kind of jobs to be done
right um so that your team can focus on
selling and focus on marketing nice so
in terms of this we in loss analysis
just to break it down a bit more is it
like a time frame that we should do over
I should do like the last year 12 months
and should be a bit more
um are there any kind of more detailed
specifics that we should look into as
you touched on it there were they ideal
clients that we won because it could be
that you won a ton of deals but they're
actually like really low average order
value and perhaps the customer churned
after a couple months because they
weren't a great fit and they didn't get
the value that they they thought they
were going out of the offer yeah that's
a great point so lifetime value of your
customer is really important right
understanding which customers get to
stickiness so I think there's that's
where I think the collaboration between
that's why I like to call it a revenue
Technology support because everything
from the first marketing touch to the
the renewal to the adoption right is so
critical to understand if a customer is
successful so looking at I guess it
depends on the time frame depending on
your business right so do you typically
have like a 60-day sales cycle is your
sales cycle a year and then what is your
typical onboarding cycle to get to
stickiness right to get to
um that activation
um kind of moment and so looking at
those customers of it I
I'm not a complete expert on this but I
think where I've seen this be successful
is looking at a few different types of
customers so ones that you've had for a
long time
um and then consistently looking at when
loss uh like on a weekly basis
um so that uh you can or weekly to
monthly monthly is probably depending on
your sales cycle is probably more useful
but really staying on top of if you're
seeing some Trends uh of hey it looks
like these types of customers are just
like all of their budgets are frozen
so like let's like we might need to move
on right or we're finding that our value
prop guess is in the door but like once
we get kind of deep it seems like we
don't think we're going to get sticky
here depending on based on our
onboarding process and what we know it
takes so working in collaboration with
sales and CS to really Define what your
what Your most successful customer looks
like and then um consistently doing win
loss in terms of closing business gotcha
what effects recommend in terms of the
attribution Mirage so it's always tough
in B2B right to actually
narrow down which channel
was the one that brought in the demo
request or the the client consultation
request because quite often it's it's a
mix and match of several right
it always is
um and you know there's been lots of
talk about the dark funnel over the last
you know few years about the fact that a
majority of the buying process what is
it over 75 happens before you even know
who the customer is
um and especially if you're selling to
an executive audience they're buying
from their peers right like they're
asking their peers and communities they
are trying to understand uh who their
competitors are using they're trying to
so very little of it has to do with your
blog post that you've optimized for the
right keyword right so I think that
doesn't mean you shouldn't be doing
those things I think it really matters
um for you to make sure that you're in
all of the channels that your buyers
could be potentially researching and
understanding but it is really hard to
understand so the way that I think about
attribution is I don't
um easy uh easy uh I know it's easy for
me to say I also work in an earlier
Stage Company and you know uh so I think
it's a little easier for me to say
um but I think what we find is really
critical is if you have a really great
um like model to understand like who you
sell to and who closes
how do you understand the quality of the
leads or the accounts that are coming in
through certain channels so you know
that when you run webinars you can see
based on your analytics that the quality
of those leads is really high but none
of them convert like literally right
um so that's just an example it's
possible maybe you have an excellent
webinar program it's awesome
um but you can see also that a majority
like a majority of our traffic is direct
like almost all of it uh director
organic right and so we see that uh it's
a mix it's a mix of um of different
tactics that are driving folks in so we
are looking at our funnel analytics to
understand what are kind of those last
touch like how do people finally convert
what pushes them over the line but that
is not where you invest all your money
right because there's so much that
happens before that and so how do you
balance your budget uh to really
understand that kind of air cover
approach
um while also making sure that you're
saturated in the right channels where
you know they finally do the behavior
change of the demo request right so I
think it's just two different uh two
different strategies and I think there's
a lot of value in measuring your team
also on engagement in a Target account
list so like say you have a Target
account list
um unless you're a super
um horizontal solution where your target
account list is like the whole world
like uh slack or uh monday.com or
something like that
um but for us our Target account list is
pretty clear we know who we sell to best
we'll we'll let in other folks if they'd
love to buy but uh like we know who we
sell to best so how do we increase
engagement with that list uh bringing
them to our website
um driving some excitement for them
um so that when they're ready to
purchase that we're already top of mind
so it's kind of it's a very uh kind of
high level approach to attribution I'd
rather my marketers spend less time
justifying their existence and more time
doing marketing um yeah yeah I get the
point
um if push comes to shove though this is
a bit of a tricky one and let's say you
had to cut a channel and maybe you're
spending like a few grand on LinkedIn
ads Google paid search maybe review
sites like G2 or keptera maybe had an
organic SEO team producing content and
building links
um maybe one or two other channels maybe
you're doing some podcast ads whatever
um
how would you then go about like you had
I don't know you had to cut badge budget
by 10K a month how would you then go
about thinking well
I don't actually know what channel is
the all these channels combined are
bringing customers to us as well as of
course communities and dark social and
our prospects talking to each other and
things like channels that can't be
tracked but how would a company go about
like cutting one of those is it just a
case of
interviewing prospects and kind of
getting the insights from them talking
to your sales team using those signals
then making a sound decision or is there
a bit more to it in your opinion
um but I also think you can see when
like there's a good example of like if
you're paid social traffic dips and your
demo requests are also dipping like you
can probably see that paid social was
contributing a lot to your demo requests
right so that is a fair as it's just
looking at leading indicators instead of
only looking at like one piece of the
puzzle right so I think there's a way to
understand you know if you've been
investing heavily in organic and your
organic traffic is not increasing and
you're not seeing an increase in uh
folks coming in from organic with a high
intent it makes sense to cut that
channel right
um and I think we're being really
Discerning right now and I think the way
that I've had my team think about this
is like how do we get to MVP on every
channel with enough leading indicators
to know which ones to invest in right so
what is that you know what is that first
leading indicator that we know
investment equal like we can continue to
invest so like we've actually seen this
with paid social over the last little
bit it's actually working for us so I'm
like all right up the investment um and
in terms of organic we're just starting
to kind of restart our organic strategy
to get it off to get it off the ground
and I know if we see us like a 10 to 15
increase month over month with an
investment of X dollars and our demos
equal x dollars that to me means let's
continue to invest uh to break it down
to uh to looking at leading indicators
um instead of I think a lot of folks
just dumped a ton of money and started
every channel over the last few years so
I think bringing it back down to basics
of what is this channel actually
supposed to achieve what are the metrics
that actually show me it's working and
uh if it's not if I pull back what
happens like what do you start to see
happen and how will we know really
quickly if that's a really good
investment or not so um you can always
reverse it which is the thing I think
people forget about budgets is you take
money out you can always put it back in
right like that's not you know we're not
printing well most of us are not
printing Billboards right
um so it's it's pretty easy to take it
down
yeah yeah I like it I think
experimentation is like a skill that
every marketer should possess
um and the ability to get creative get
Scrappy whether that is kind of starting
a a channel yourself maybe you build up
the podcast internally because you don't
have cash to invest in a production
company anymore well like you say maybe
you think I'm going to turn this channel
off for a couple of months see if it
really impacts demo requests or close
one Revenue if it doesn't great let's
move it elsewhere and just yeah taking
those things into your own hand is is
smart of course it's a lot easier when
you're a smaller business yes and you'd
have a ton of red tape to get through
um yes it can be more difficult for
larger organizations with those kind of
things totally and I think that's where
technology can really support you more
in a larger business right like you
should have a more sophisticated uh you
know analytics platform like if we see a
lot of companies that have a big volume
are using are using mad Kuru to be able
to Define this they know if they're mql
like it's it's truly amazing to see how
many companies are still gold on mqls
um and not uh quality Pipeline and so
we're showing folks in a lot of places
about 20 of your mqls are about 80 to 90
of your Revenue
so how can you decrease the volume of
mqls and have your pipeline actually go
up because you're investing in the right
channels so it's it it really does help
like it's not something you can really
do on your own because of the just vast
amounts of data
um we do see a lot of value in using a
predictive platform or what we call
Revenue automation intelligence platform
to really be able to tell you what can
you automate where's the intelligence
like how can you not spend a million
hours with the data team looking at
looking at this stuff and just have your
models kind of work for you
do you guys have any data on uh you
mentioned mqls there and like people
over investing in mpu house and them not
actually going in to close one deals do
you have any data on like the biggest
fail channel that companies in B2B Tech
are still investing in that's producing
a ton of nqrs just not producing end and
one deals it's a really interesting data
I'd love to look into it yeah that's a
good good content piece that we can have
coming up uh I think people do a case
study I'm not
same across the board
um but it would be interesting to look
at but we are certainly seeing I think a
lot of teams want to move away from the
mql like it's not like all of these
conversations are
uh almost everyone I talk to wants their
whole team gold on Revenue which
I get right marketers want to show that
they're driving Revenue CMOS and VPS are
accountable for close one Revenue
um and so they want to be able to show
that they're that they're high like
their High intent uh you know mqls are
actually converting
but I think it depends
to depend the it depends on the business
to know which channels are actually
driving it hmm
I actually really want to do a case
study on that now I think that could be
an awesome episode perhaps you could do
collab in the future okay
awesome awesome
um so we went off on a bit of tangent I
think we jumped ahead quite quite a way
as well so which I always do on this
show but yes we're talking about kind of
win loss analysis kind of analyzing data
um making sure the leads are coming in
at Good Fit
um and they're the right kind of clients
that you're closing deals with
is is there a next step or other things
that we should be doing in order to be
able to make sound predictions on what
our business should be investing in or
prioritizing moving forward after we've
done that part
yeah I think there's really I think I
brought this up earlier but I think that
feed feedback loop is super critical
right right there's I think I made a
mention of uh there is no set it and
forget it right this Market is
constantly changing your business is
constantly changing
um and to be able to a big part of this
is building trust
um and Alignment to that another like
word that comes up all the time uh
between sales and marketing specifically
right so how many times have you heard
sales teams being like we're not meeting
our number because we're getting garbage
from the marketing team right like I
don't know why they're sending us these
leads that are like just people that
downloaded ebooks or like uh attended an
event but they didn't even see us like I
don't even they don't even know who we
are like this is pretty much cold
Outreach right
and you hear marketers saying well the
problem is they're not properly working
the leads that we're sending over I'm
looking and I'm seeing the slas are
being broken like people aren't being
followed up with like theirs and so
there's a lot of this like tension
between these two teams specifically
never mind CS which is just like hey can
you help me uh they're on the other side
like like hey marketing like we could
use your help
um and so I think there's a ton of value
in creating shared definitions shared
truth between teams around these are the
the quality that we are sending over to
you that is either designated as very
good or good is based on the revenue
you've closed sales date like I promise
you
um and we also are making our like at
least for us we're making our uh our
analytics even more and more transparent
so if they're like this lead looks like
trash why is it scored like this they go
right into our platform search their
email address and or actually they can
go right into Salesforce search their
email address and it shows them exactly
why they're scored that way and so they
can understand and it's a share it's
like we're no longer fighting over
subjectivity
um but we're looking at objectively this
is what our model is telling us this is
where our business has been successful
if we think otherwise and we want to do
a manual override which is possible too
um we're going to do that together right
like that is something we're going to
make a decision on together because this
impacts both our scoring in terms of the
marketing as well as what sales is
getting as well as what are the leading
indicators of a need for expansion NCS
or a churn risk
um or something like that so I think the
the next step is really a continuous
feedback loop and I think that that's
what I found really valuable as a
marketer
that
when working with a sales leader is that
we are we win together and we lose
together right like there's no if
marketing is winning and the business is
losing something is very broken
um and we see it a lot where like
there's almost nothing like kind of
ickier to me than the idea of coming to
like a all-team meeting or a board
meeting and a marketing being like we're
crushing it like our our goals are like
we're passing all our goals and then you
look at and you're like 50 of your
Revenue close and it's like what's
broken there because in theory what that
like if your models are right like if
marketing's crushing their goals so
should sales right unless you're if your
sales cycle is like two years long maybe
not but I think there's there's
certainly uh should be a correlation of
both those teams being successful
together
yeah you would hope so yeah yeah you
would think so right and
and better experience right like I hear
all the time how do you build sales and
marketing alignment like just be friends
know them like get along with them
personally it's like well why don't you
just be playing the same game
like have the same coach
right
um be on the same field like in some
places like you're like fundamentally
playing different sports right and so I
think there's a lot of value in that in
that shared language shared
responsibility
um and of course liking each other is
excellent as well but I think that's
that's secondary yeah I completely agree
I think uh marketing should actually be
forced to call their own leads like at
least once a quarter and just test the
quality of themself before because I
know so many marketers that would never
hop on a CS cool let alone make a cold
prospecting cool or cool or warm lead or
anything like that so they should really
like yeah a lot of a lot of marketers
are encouraged to listen to gong calls
but I think hands-on experience is like
a game changer and it is interesting
because I do feel like marketing has
gotten more and more specialized over
the last five years or so because
marketing teams have gotten really big
in a lot of organizations and so
marketers have gotten further and
further away it's been a disservice to
the marketers as well right they've
gotten further and further away from the
customer like from the sales process
um I think about I know I've been
interviewing folks over the last few
months
um for Content jobs and so many of them
have no idea how their work has impacted
Revenue because their team was so big
right and they're they were just um
accounted for all they had to do was
produce like they just had to produce
make sure traffic was coming in make
sure they're ranking for the right
Search terms right and so I don't blame
a lot of marketers who have been kind of
coming up over the last five to seven
years for being distant because what
they were what made them successful was
being excellent Craftsmen at whatever
Channel they were they were kind of
assigned to right
um and I think you're finding now that
there's uh there's this big conversation
around like Scrappy generalists and how
they're actually being more successful
in this current market
um because they understand the value of
the business and they can pivot where
their Channel kind of strategy is we
were talking earlier about how cutting
channels well some people that have you
know anyone in there like that started
grew up in Tech and now is in like you
know whatever their late 20s early 30s
or they made a career shift so so
they're like older but they've been in
tech for the last eight years A lot of
them are specialists in a channel so
you're thinking about like cutting
channels and you're cutting their job
like like everything they've built right
and so I think there's there's
definitely a lot of conversation around
marketers get on the phone like bdrs and
sdrs have the hardest job like you try
getting right in front of a prospect and
actually doing like talking the talk but
they haven't been really educated or
served to do that and I think that
that's it's been a a really tough
transition for a lot of them um that
we're on like 12 person content teams or
like 15 person demand teams and all they
managed was like
I don't know Google search console you
know like that's that's like a real
thing
sounds like a Christy jump Yeah well
yeah but also like it was a hard skill
you know like they learned a tool they
learned a lot of them also are just
management platforms over the last few
years
um and so as platforms are consolidating
so are their jobs and so I think there's
a lot of I have a lot of empathy for
folks that have um built their careers
over the last you know five seven years
of hyper growth in tech and and are now
like whoa like I need a broader
understanding of the business like I
didn't have the purview or like the
visibility into so many parts of the
business that would have helped me a lot
in my job
um and so not I definitely agree they
shut off on the phone but I think that
there's definitely some Nuance into why
they why that would be so challenging
for them I appreciate the pushback
um I think you're right like especially
take take roles in marketing like field
marketers and things like that where all
most roles have been completely wiped
out that were full force a couple years
ago and then everyone's saying let's cut
events let's move everything digital
and like you say if you're not a bit of
a marketing or route well as if you're
going for a job role that's outside of a
field marketing and you're going against
someone who's more of an old round
marker who says look I've got experience
in XYZ I can run up podcasts I can run
some SEO I can run some paid search I
can set you up on here
um I've also got a experience in this
well who's going to get prioritized The
Specialist or the generalist that's
actually going to come in and probably
impact Revenue quite quickly
and it's so interesting because probably
about seven or eight years ago this it
was the exact opposite it was like I was
definitely more of a generalist I was
not working in Tech yet
um I was considering going to business
school which I did end up doing and
people thought I was so ridiculous for
doing that they were like why would you
do that like that doesn't like that's
not going to serve you just go work in
Tech and you'll learn it
and I everyone's telling me to
specialize they were like you're too
General it's hard to know what to hire
you for
and I so I I did specialize early in my
career
um and so I started working in PR and
then I moved into a Content strategy
role went to business school part time
so I was working this whole time and it
has served me immensely I can't this is
not like back to the prediction
conversation not because I knew how to
predict that this is where anything
would go but I was a Content marketer
that was able to understand the impact
on the business because I I like had I
could speak Finance I could speak
um all these other languages that like I
was not going to learn in my you know
800 person company that I was working in
with you know a team of 45 marketers
like I could I got some kind of
visibility to it but the full picture I
was not certainly going to have an
understanding of right and so I think
there's definitely it's crazy that it
has swapped and so I have a lot of
empathy for folks that are like I was
told to specialize over the last you
know six to seven years and now I'm
working on becoming more General
um yeah it's like you if you're a
Content person now you need to be
totally multi-channel like you need to
have touched every channel this is if
you're a long form writer like that is
that was a job where like I you know
I've talked to companies that had a full
team of only long form writers
and that is pretty uncommon now in terms
of
um especially with AI That's like a
whole nother conversation but I think uh
it's really it's a lot is changing for
them so I think there's uh in terms of
being able to equip your teams properly
I think this is even more important than
ever as your teams are trying to upskill
in lots of different ways
yeah it really really sound advice
um that business sense and knowing what
kind of your CEO what your company
owners what your company Founders truly
care about and it's is really really
useful
um just so you can understand General
business then if you do decide you want
to have a side gig in the future or you
want to start your own thing those
skills are invaluable
um that's what I kind of getting dirt
getting your hands dirty in a small
startup or a smaller business is is
really useful in your case kind of
getting that business expertise is super
super valuable no doubt and to your
second point I think it's it's a tough
time for copywriters right now with the
introduction of all these AI tools so
unless you're a super Specialized or
niched or I've got a good client base it
must be extremely difficult to generate
new business I would have thought
yeah I think it is a yes tough I think I
don't believe that AI is going to
completely uh you know negate writers I
think there's a lot of value for really
differentiated thought-provoking content
that is not AI drip because everyone is
just going to use AI to to build their
kind of like Baseline content right like
you're not going to have content
marketers writing you know SEO Focus
pillar pages on topics anymore because
like there's there you know to be fair
um being brighter chat DBT Does It
Better like they can do the research
faster
um they can get you at least 80 of the
way there I'm seeing a lot of folks
really using their skills as editors a
lot more
um or as prompt creation
um and also thinking more multi-channel
right so how can we think more about
distribution strategy more about the
places that we are how is our opinion
actually really differentiated what is
our different perspective
um that's something that I don't think
AI is at yet so I do think it's really
critical
um I have a soft spot in my heart for
folks that come up through content so I
think there's there is definitely a huge
place for them it just is definitely a
shift in like what their day-to-day
looks like if you're a freelance
copywriter I think generally it's going
to be really hard um
but some Industries are super uh averse
to Ai and I think they will continue to
use um you see some of the large
companies like Banning it uh because
they're afraid of um having proprietary
data putting into the engines right so
you're seeing some folks are still
certainly busy uh in some Industries but
I think you know we're a little bit
skewed in B2B Tech because we're all
hungry for the Innovation for sure no
doubt No Doubt let's let's wrap up the
um
prediction process strategy that we're
running through in terms of so you
mentioned feedback loops how often
should we be doing reviews when it comes
to things like
the channels we're investing in churn
rates General bits and pieces when it
comes to our marketing strategy
outlaying teams like how often should we
be reviewing that feedback loop and then
kind of be reassessing our strategy yeah
the way that we think about it is we do
it on uh like a holistic monthly basis
so I think this also
um is a tip for anyone that has
quarterly board meetings um please have
your team do monthly reviews because
that quarterly review is so much easier
when you are doing it monthly uh which
all I do is just comprise all three
months together and it has a story that
we can tell
um over that time
um and so we're looking at every channel
uh in terms of like a holistic view on a
month-to-month basis but we are really
running very specific experiments for
certain and this is something that
actually our CEO is really excellent at
and I'm I'm even upskilling in like how
specific he gets in terms of experiments
that we're running on a week-to-week
basis so we work in kind of a an agile
Sprint kind of uh
ask a marketing approach uh and so we
are looking at what are we trying to
prove each week
um with the work that we're doing and so
we can move really fast
um so we're pretty early stage so I
would say that that's a little easier
for us but I would I would challenge
um companies that are even larger to say
what are the what are you trying to
prove what are the hypotheses you're
trying to prove week over week as your
channels are really your channel
strategy is changing a lot and how are
you able to prove those so that when you
get to the end of the month it's not
like we hadn't looked in anything all
month and now we're surprised
um we also look at our main like our key
metrics every single week
um because we we're keeping a close eye
on them so nice so in short review every
month if you can
yes that is uh in short yeah every month
if you can and then keeping your team
with their leading indicators so each
one of you know my team members have
their own leading indicators they should
be operating week to week I think
um at least that's what's worked for me
um
MIT awesome Sean really appreciate the
conversation thanks for sharing your
tips hand on advice and um yeah really
just enjoyed the discussion so with that
please do share more about how everyone
tuning in can learn more about yourself
Matt Guru and any way you want to send
the audience yeah absolutely so
um you can visit us at madkudu.com uh
where you can learn more learn more
about how your Revenue teams can
continue to automate the intelligence
that they have to be able to predict and
prioritize only Revenue generating
signals which I think is something
that's becoming even more and more
important
um and uh I guess you can find me on
LinkedIn my name is Shannon Curran I
usually write a lot about how
challenging it is to be a leader uh and
also the things that I'm learning all
the time uh about how to be kind of a
better Coach a better leader
um and all the things I'm learning from
all of the other kind of Revenue leaders
that I get to talk to on a day-to-day
basis which is awesome so yeah that's
where you can find us um yeah and I look
forward to you know chatting with anyone
um after this
good stuff and we'll put all of those
links in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing over that I
want to thank you once again Shannon
really enjoyed the chat awesome thanks
so much no worries and as always if you
enjoyed today's episode a quick rating
or review on your podcast channel is
appreciated or if you're on YouTube a
subscribe goes a long way and with that
we'll catch you on the next one for more
no BS B2B marketing tips and advice
catch you soon